image_finder/readme.md, before:

# Image Similarity Finder

A tool with both GUI and command-line interfaces that finds visually similar images across directories, regardless of size, format, or minor modifications.

## Features

- Find images similar to a reference image across multiple directories
- Works with different image sizes and aspect ratios
- Supports various image formats (JPG, PNG, BMP, TIFF, WebP, GIF)
- Adjustable similarity threshold for fine-tuning results
- Configurable number of results to display
- User-friendly graphical interface with image preview and context menus
- Right-click on results to open images or navigate to their folders
- Command-line interface for automation and scripting
- Type-safe implementation with Pydantic models
- Robust error handling and validation
- Modular architecture with clean separation of concerns
- Easy installation and uninstallation

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **models.py**: Data models and validation using Pydantic
- **analyzer.py**: Image analysis and feature extraction
- **finder.py**: Core functionality for finding similar images
- **gui.py**: Graphical user interface using Tkinter
- **cli.py**: Command-line interface
- **main.py**: Main entry point for the application

## Installation

### Option 1: Using pip (recommended)

```bash
pip install imagesim
```

### Option 2: From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/example/imagesim.git
cd imagesim
pip install -e .
```

### Option 3: Using the install script (Linux/macOS)

```bash
./install.sh
```

## Usage

### Graphical User Interface

Launch the GUI with:

```bash
imagesim --gui
```

or simply:

```bash
imagesim
```

The GUI provides:
- Visual image selection
- Directory browsing
- Adjustable threshold with slider
- Results with similarity scores
- Image preview
- Context menu for additional actions

### Command-line Interface

#### Basic usage

```bash
imagesim path/to/reference_image.jpg path/to/search/directory
```

#### Search multiple directories

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg dir1 dir2 dir3
```

#### Adjust similarity threshold (0-1, where 1 is identical)

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg directory --threshold 0.6
```

#### Limit number of results

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg directory --max-results 5
```

## How It Works

The tool uses computer vision techniques to find similar images:

1. **Feature Extraction**: Each image is converted into a feature vector using Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)
2. **Normalization**: Feature vectors are normalized to ensure consistent comparison
3. **Similarity Calculation**: Cosine similarity measures how similar the vectors are
4. **Result Ranking**: Images are ranked by similarity score and returned in descending order

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

### Setup development environment

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/example/imagesim.git
cd imagesim

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Running tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- Required Python packages (automatically installed):
  - numpy: For numerical operations
  - pillow: For image processing
  - opencv-python: For computer vision algorithms
  - scikit-learn: For similarity calculations
  - tkinter: For the graphical user interface
  - pydantic: For data validation and modeling

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **File not found errors**: Ensure the paths to images and directories exist and are accessible.

2. **Pydantic validation errors**: Make sure file paths and directory paths exist before running searches.

3. **Missing dependencies**: If you encounter import errors, ensure all required packages are installed:
   ```bash
   pip install numpy pillow opencv-python scikit-learn pydantic
   ```

4. **GUI not displaying**: Ensure Tkinter is properly installed with your Python distribution.

5. **Low similarity scores**: Try adjusting the threshold parameter to find more matches.

### Submitting Bug Reports

If you encounter an issue not covered here, please submit a bug report with:
- A detailed description of the problem
- The error message and stack trace
- Steps to reproduce the issue
- Your environment information (OS, Python version)

## License

MIT License

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Commit message:

add cancel to stop search

image_finder/readme.md, after:

# Image Similarity Finder

A tool with both GUI and command-line interfaces that finds visually similar images across directories, regardless of size, format, or minor modifications.

## Features

- Find images similar to a reference image across multiple directories
- Works with different image sizes and aspect ratios
- Supports various image formats (JPG, PNG, BMP, TIFF, WebP, GIF)
- Adjustable similarity threshold for fine-tuning results
- Configurable number of results to display
- User-friendly graphical interface with image preview and context menus
- **Ability to cancel long-running operations**
- Right-click on results to open images or navigate to their folders
- Command-line interface for automation and scripting
- Type-safe implementation with Pydantic models
- Robust error handling and validation
- Modular architecture with clean separation of concerns
- Easy installation and uninstallation

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **models.py**: Data models and validation using Pydantic
- **analyzer.py**: Image analysis and feature extraction
- **finder.py**: Core functionality for finding similar images
- **gui.py**: Graphical user interface using Tkinter
- **cli.py**: Command-line interface
- **main.py**: Main entry point for the application

## Installation

### Option 1: Using pip (recommended)

```bash
pip install imagesim
```

### Option 2: From source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/example/imagesim.git
cd imagesim
pip install -e .
```

### Option 3: Using the install script (Linux/macOS)

```bash
./install.sh
```

## Usage

### Graphical User Interface

Launch the GUI with:

```bash
imagesim --gui
```

or simply:

```bash
imagesim
```

The GUI provides:
- Visual image selection
- Directory browsing
- Adjustable threshold with slider
- Results with similarity scores
- Image preview
- **Cancel button for stopping long-running operations**
- Context menu for additional actions

### Command-line Interface

#### Basic usage

```bash
imagesim path/to/reference_image.jpg path/to/search/directory
```

#### Search multiple directories

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg dir1 dir2 dir3
```

#### Adjust similarity threshold (0-1, where 1 is identical)

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg directory --threshold 0.6
```

#### Limit number of results

```bash
imagesim reference_image.jpg directory --max-results 5
```

## How It Works

The tool uses computer vision techniques to find similar images:

1. **Feature Extraction**: Each image is converted into a feature vector using Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)
2. **Normalization**: Feature vectors are normalized to ensure consistent comparison
3. **Similarity Calculation**: Cosine similarity measures how similar the vectors are
4. **Result Ranking**: Images are ranked by similarity score and returned in descending order

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

### Setup development environment

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/example/imagesim.git
cd imagesim

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### Running tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- Required Python packages (automatically installed):
  - numpy: For numerical operations
  - pillow: For image processing
  - opencv-python: For computer vision algorithms
  - scikit-learn: For similarity calculations
  - tkinter: For the graphical user interface
  - pydantic: For data validation and modeling

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **File not found errors**: Ensure the paths to images and directories exist and are accessible.

2. **Pydantic validation errors**: Make sure file paths and directory paths exist before running searches.

3. **Missing dependencies**: If you encounter import errors, ensure all required packages are installed:
   ```bash
   pip install numpy pillow opencv-python scikit-learn pydantic
   ```

4. **GUI not displaying**: Ensure Tkinter is properly installed with your Python distribution.

5. **Low similarity scores**: Try adjusting the threshold parameter to find more matches.

6. **Search taking too long**: For large directories with many images, use the Cancel button to stop the search prematurely and adjust your search parameters.

### Submitting Bug Reports

If you encounter an issue not covered here, please submit a bug report with:
- A detailed description of the problem
- The error message and stack trace
- Steps to reproduce the issue
- Your environment information (OS, Python version)

## License

MIT License

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request
