file_organizer/readme.md, before:

# File Organizer

A Python utility that automatically organizes files by their file type.

## Overview

File Organizer is a simple yet powerful Python script that helps you clean up directories with mixed file types. It scans a specified directory, identifies each file's extension, creates a "processed" directory with subdirectories for each file type, and moves files to their corresponding type directories.

## Features

- **Automatic Organization**: Organizes files based on their extensions
- **Centralized Processed Folder**: Places all organized files in a "processed" directory
- **Custom Directory Support**: Specify any directory to organize
- **Duplicate Handling**: Automatically adds suffixes to prevent overwriting existing files
- **Progress Tracking**: Shows real-time feedback on files being moved
- **Summary Report**: Provides a count of files organized by extension
- **User Confirmation**: Asks for confirmation before proceeding with file operations
- **No-Extension Handling**: Places files without extensions in a "no_extension" directory
- **Self-Preservation**: Skips the script itself to avoid disrupting execution
- **Circular Processing Prevention**: Avoids re-processing files in the "processed" directory

## Installation

No installation required! Simply download the `file_organizer.py` script to your computer.

### Requirements

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Standard library modules only (no external dependencies)

## Usage

### Basic Usage

To organize files in your current directory:

```bash
python file_organizer.py
```

### Specifying a Directory

To organize files in a specific directory:

```bash
python file_organizer.py /path/to/directory
```

### Example

```bash
$ python file_organizer.py ~/Downloads
This will organize all files in '/home/user/Downloads' into subdirectories by file type.
Continue? (y/n): y
Moved: document.pdf -> processed/pdf/document.pdf
Moved: image.jpg -> processed/jpg/image.jpg
Moved: presentation.pptx -> processed/pptx/presentation.pptx
...

Organization complete!
Summary of files organized:
  jpg: 15 file(s)
  pdf: 7 file(s)
  pptx: 2 file(s)
  txt: 3 file(s)
  zip: 4 file(s)
```

## Caution

- **This script moves files**, not copies them. Always ensure you have backups of important data.
- Running the script multiple times might result in nested organization if you run it on a directory that already contains type-based subdirectories.

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Copyright © 2025 Eric Gitonga. All rights reserved.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

refactor to move files without extension into misc directory

file_organizer/readme.md, after:

# File Organizer

A Python utility that automatically organizes files by their file type.

## Overview

File Organizer is a simple yet powerful Python script that helps you clean up directories with mixed file types. It scans a specified directory, identifies each file's extension, creates a "processed" directory with subdirectories for each file type, and moves files to their corresponding type directories.

## Features

- **Automatic Organization**: Organizes files based on their extensions
- **Centralized Processed Folder**: Places all organized files in a "processed" directory
- **Custom Directory Support**: Specify any directory to organize
- **Duplicate Handling**: Automatically adds suffixes to prevent overwriting existing files
- **Progress Tracking**: Shows real-time feedback on files being moved
- **Summary Report**: Provides a count of files organized by extension
- **User Confirmation**: Asks for confirmation before proceeding with file operations
- **No-Extension Handling**: Places files without extensions in a "no_extension" directory
- **Unknown Extension Handling**: Places files with uncommon extensions in a "misc" directory
- **Self-Preservation**: Skips the script itself to avoid disrupting execution
- **Circular Processing Prevention**: Avoids re-processing files in the "processed" directory

## Installation

No installation required! Simply download the `file_organizer.py` script to your computer.

### Requirements

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Standard library modules only (no external dependencies)

## Usage

### Basic Usage

To organize files in your current directory:

```bash
python file_organizer.py
```

### Specifying a Directory

To organize files in a specific directory:

```bash
python file_organizer.py /path/to/directory
```

### Example

```bash
$ python file_organizer.py ~/Downloads
This will organize all files in '/home/user/Downloads' into subdirectories by file type.
Continue? (y/n): y
Moved: document.pdf -> processed/pdf/document.pdf
Moved: image.jpg -> processed/jpg/image.jpg
Moved: presentation.pptx -> processed/pptx/presentation.pptx
...

Organization complete!
Summary of files organized:
  jpg: 15 file(s)
  pdf: 7 file(s)
  pptx: 2 file(s)
  txt: 3 file(s)
  zip: 4 file(s)
```

## Caution

- **This script moves files**, not copies them. Always ensure you have backups of important data.
- Running the script multiple times might result in nested organization if you run it on a directory that already contains type-based subdirectories.

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Copyright © 2025 Eric Gitonga. All rights reserved.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.
